Did we just hear that someone in the mumble room
is running Solaris?
Tell me about this.
Yeah, so I've got a Solaris virtual machine running QEMU
and I've got IRC running over Telnet inside of Solaris,
inside of a virtual machine.
Why?
I honestly don't know, I was bored.
Isn't that the reason for anything?
Yeah, because I can.
And I mean, at this point,
he might be the last Solaris user out there.
I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know.
Hello friends, and welcome back
to your weekly Linux talk show.
My name is Chris.
My name is Wes.
My name is Brent.
Hello gentlemen, welcome in.
And this episode is brought to you by a Cloud Guru.
You know, they are the leader in learning for Cloud Linux
and other modern tech skills.
Hundreds of courses, thousands of hands-on labs.
Get certified, get hired, get learning at acloudguru.com.
Well, coming up on the show today,
we're gonna do a checkup call on the state of Linux phones,
a little reality check there.
And maybe we'll then try to work out the line exactly,
where do you draw what makes a Linux user
and what doesn't make a Linux user?
And as funny as it sounds,
that question, as we kicked it around as a team
before the show, turned out to be a lot harder to answer
than you might think.
We'll go into details on that.
But first, before we get into the show,
right at the top, I wanna say hello,
time appropriate greetings to our virtual lug.
Hello mumble room.
Hello.
Good evening.
Hi, it's nice to, I can't see you today
because of this remote setup I have going,
but I can hear you and I can feel you.
So it's good to have you there.
This is the last remote show for a while.
I made it to Oregon and JOOPS is all fixed up
as of like an hour before the show.
I feel like at this point, you shouldn't even tell us.
You're just gonna jinx it.
I know.
And actually it's not even totally fixed.
There is still one more.
Yeah.
That's how it always goes.
You say last remote show, but how can you be sure?
Well, if it breaks down again,
he's just gonna move to Oregon.
Yeah, pretty much.
Like I just can't have it.
We made it into the shop yesterday
and they squeezed us in on a Monday,
but they couldn't finish.
They figured out what went wrong.
They fixed it for us.
And we also improved it a little bit
by adding a few more what are called Coney shocks.
They're very, oh, Coneys, you like Coneys, oh, okay.
And we got those installed and the ride's better than ever.
She really is riding so, so great.
I wish I could have done this work ironically
before the trip, but we wouldn't have been in here
if we didn't have the suspension problems,
but they finished her up about an hour ago.
And then I rushed to a spot that is without any kind
of doubt, Brent, the best spot I have been in
since we started the road trip.
And I wish I could have brought you here
because I feel like you got a bad picture
of what all the RV parks are like.
Cause you didn't really get to go any nice ones.
What?
You told me the whole time these were great.
No, no, no.
This one we're at is great.
So what's different about it that makes it so a chic?
Well, you're gonna like this.
First of all, cement pads everywhere.
Everything's cement, right?
You got grass.
Oh yeah, trees with shade and super fast wifi,
beautiful landscapes, bridges over creeks
and just a wonderful facility.
Nice bathrooms, huge showers,
really like a destination RV park.
And they let us in early too.
Like usually you can't even get into like two o'clock,
but the show goes live at noon
and I needed to be in before that to set up.
They let us in a couple of hours or well,
more than a couple of hours early,
no extra charge just because they, you know,
they wanted to make sure we could get set up for the show.
How great is that?
That's pretty amazing.
How's the dog park though?
Yeah, I'll tell you, he's out enjoying it right now.
I got on the air and Hadia took Levi out
for some fun that was like, we just boom,
got right to it because there's a lot to do today.
So why don't we get into some community news?
And the first one is a series of stories
that kind of came together to give us an update
on the state of Linux on phones.
And you might've heard that Purism is raising the price
of the yet to be fully fulfilled Librem 5.
Now I think making it more expensive
than an iPhone 13, ironically.
That is impressive by itself.
Yeah, Purism wrote that we will be increasing prices
for all new orders of the Librem 5 in stages.
So the phone will be priced at 1199
for all orders received on or after November 1st, 2021.
And then the price goes up another a hundred bucks to 1299
if you order after March, 2022.
Although they do go on to note
that they have a refund policy.
Good, and I also appreciate the early communication on it,
but it really feels like a desperate move
that the hardware of this thing
is already so substantially uncompetitive.
And even if they make some investments
like they say they might into the hardware,
it's so far behind everything else
that you can't make the hardware the value proposition.
And the software, well, I think the whole package
gives us all a bit of a reality check.
And it seems like every time we see
one of these disappointing updates from Purism,
we learn again just how hard it really truly is
to take on the Apple and Google duopoly
because it's not just the hardware,
it's the software and the ecosystems.
And that just alone has its own incredible challenges,
many of which I don't think we can even appreciate
since we can't fully inspect the code of iOS and Android,
we can't even see all the problems they've solved.
Android, obviously at least the base is more open,
but that whole Google layer is closed off to us.
And as is on iOS, it's with this that you think,
well, okay, well, where can we focus and do good?
If we can't really compete on the software,
at least at the user level and the APIs and the ecosystem,
can we compete in a way that is more genuine
to free software, more like how we do
where we slowly build up over time
and we upstream technology.
And in the last week, I think there was a link
that started getting spread around
that really made me think like this challenge
is so much greater than we've ever conceptualized.
There was a post that was authored in mid June,
but it's been, I don't know why,
but it's been getting linked around like crazy this week.
And the post was created by Median,
I apologize because he's a security researcher.
You may be familiar with the projects that he's worked on.
They work on Whoix or Hoonix, I should say.
And their post was getting shared around
and it really was trying to draw attention
to mobile Linux OSes lacking what we would consider
really kind of table stakes standard security features
in Android or iOS.
Yeah, they note that at this point,
Linux phones lack any significant security model.
And the points from the Linux article
apply to Linux phones fully.
I mean, if you've read their article
about the Linux security implications,
you get Linux on a phone, all of those basically port over.
There's not yet a single Linux phone
with the same security model.
They don't have modern security features
such as full system Mac policies, verified boot,
strong app sandboxing,
something we're still working on on the desktop,
modern exploit mitigations and so on,
which even most modern Android phones already deploy.
Those are all fair points, right?
There is mandatory access controls
and limiting application data access with sandboxing.
And a lot of stuff we have all the fundamental plumbing for,
but we're just not necessarily employing
in our mobile OSes yet.
There's that kind of security.
And then there's the kind of security
that we talk a lot about on Self-Hosted
and we talk about on this show.
And that's the security from eavesdropping
and the privacy that you get
from controlling your own devices
or having access to application data
or being able to install arbitrary applications, right?
There are different kinds of security
and they're all important.
And the Linux devices are really good
at like the privacy and user control kind of security.
Do you follow what I'm saying?
I think in all of this,
like the observations here are definitely true,
but we're still stuck in that middle ground.
And maybe we're gonna talk a little bit more
about this later in the show,
but like, what are we marketing here?
Are these phones made for the average user
who doesn't know what they're doing?
Is that the end goal?
Because if so, then yeah, right?
Like they are not competing on the terms of protections
that we now have for those users.
But at the same time,
I kind of hate that on a non-rooted Android phone,
I don't really feel like it's my phone.
I can only do a subset of the things I'm used to doing,
which means I still haven't shifted
a majority of my workflows off the desktop, you know?
And so there is kind of that balance.
Like I want security,
but I want it in the way that I can opt into it
and I'm aware of it.
And I don't know that we really have anything
that meets all of those needs.
Yeah, to say nothing of the apps, like mapping and...
Well, yeah, you still have to have apps
that actually let you get your stuff done.
And then there's sort of the lower level stuff, right?
The Post does a great job of noting
that we have a lot of the plumbing
for decent firmware updates.
But when you look at the devices
that are out there right now,
there's not really a lot of standardized ways of doing it.
Like let's look at the Librem and PureOS again.
They prevent the user
from loading proprietary firmware updates,
which seems like a good thing.
But in practice over the years,
it means that users can't update to new firmwares
released by that vendor
because you have to wait for the Purism version,
which sometimes maybe gets old out of date,
insecure, has known vulnerabilities.
Like there's just, it's not sustainable
for every vendor to be releasing
their own custom free versions of firmwares.
And then you're back in that choice problem, right?
Where you're like, well, okay, I get that.
And maybe some users would prefer to wait for that.
But then there might be other users who are like,
okay, well, this isn't ideal,
but I would rather just take the security update,
even if it's proprietary firmware right now,
and they can't do that.
But there's a layer to security in these mobile devices
that we've touched on before,
but is trickier than I think we can appreciate.
And that is sometimes there's components in there
that don't necessarily even trust each other
and how you implement that isolation matters.
Yeah, it's really worth reading the full post here.
And of course, that'll be linked in the show notes.
But as an example, we talk a lot about the importance
of like modem isolation, right?
You've got this baseband stuff that really no one trusts.
And we're always hearing about how those cellular modems
are basically essential on a device,
but they're also kind of risky
and can receive all kinds of commands
to do remote snooping on you.
And then there's what the Librem 5 is trying to do
to try to isolate that modem.
It seems it's a little unorthodox
because it actually attempts to isolate the modem
using the Linux kernel's USB stack.
Interesting in theory,
but that stack wasn't necessarily designed
as a strong isolation barrier,
which the article really highlights.
Yeah, you can see how that could be target number one
for an attacker is just figuring out
how to hop around just right there.
Brenda, I think the unspoken thing too,
when we talk about Linux phones,
and I'm curious if this is true for you
because this is how I feel.
When I'm thinking about a Linux phone long-term,
I'm still trying to solve the problem
I was probably trying to solve back in 2002.
And that is have a mobile compute device
that lets me do the kind of work I need to do
when I need to do it in a pinch.
And that's, I think, something Linux could offer me
on a device that iOS and Android can't.
And I think that's really what still appeals to me
about these devices and the privacy.
Yeah, I think those of us in this wonderful Linux niche
of ours just want that sort of mobility.
I know you've been talking about it for years.
And it feels like we're still really far away from that,
even though we've been thinking about it for a long time.
Some people are working really hard on it,
but man, it feels like smart posts like this
just make me feel kind of sad and sick all at once
about the current state of affairs, really.
Sad and sick at the same time is a great way to put it.
Although I do have a glimmer of hope
because I feel like my use case
is going to be addressed one day.
Like, I think I'll probably,
one day I'll be like a two-phone guy again,
and I'll have, instead of an Android and iPhone,
again, I'll have probably an iPhone
and probably a Linux phone.
And I'll use the iPhone for some of my traveling apps
and stuff like that, and maybe I'd use the Linux phone
for remote work or doing any kind of thing
that requires anything outside the box.
I guess we're gonna need bigger pockets, though.
I mean, I suppose devices just get smaller and smaller,
so maybe we can make it work.
Two words, my man, two words, tactical pants.
They're a real thing.
Do you not know about tactical pants?
I'm just not sure they're my style.
Tactical shorts, maybe?
Yeah, maybe you should go with the tactical shorts, Wes.
You should probably go with the tactical shorts.
They have vests, you know?
You can keep your Linux phone in your vest.
That's all I'm all about, a vest.
Mm-hmm, you know it.
Looks like the dev kits are on the move.
So let's do a little quick update.
Valve has sent out a short little blurb to developers
saying that if you haven't gotten your deck yet,
you should get it soon.
And they've included in there some sweet shots.
Seriously, we'll have a link to the article
where the deck looks good, hooked up to maybe even possibly
a mechanical keyboard, getting all of its OS updates.
Yeah, Liam over at Gaming on Linux
notes that a few developers have already received their units,
saying that Gary Neumann of Facepunch
commented that Rust runs good on the Steam Deck.
And they're working with easy anti-cheat
to get it all hooked up, which is very important.
Also saw Phil Spencer of Xbox had access as well
and commented on Halo, Age of Empires, and xCloud,
all working nicely.
It also seems that the Terraria developer, ReLogic,
also has a dev kit.
They noted on Twitter to say that Terraria and the Steam
Deck, perfect combination for your adventures.
Linode.com slash unplugged.
Go there to get $100 in credit for 60 days on a new account.
And of course, you go there to support the show.
So that's linode.com slash unplugged.
Linode is our hosting provider.
They have been for a couple of years now.
I became a customer first.
I signed up because I was, I'll be honest,
I was a little Linode curious.
You might be a little Linode curious too.
I recommend you take this opportunity
to support the show and get that $100.
And after I tried it out, I thought,
this is where we're going to build everything.
And then once we got the idea to go independent again,
I knew I was going to need a lot of infrastructure fast.
And I knew I was going to have to make
a serious decision about where I host that infrastructure.
Because A, I want it to run great,
because that's part of what I think the JB experience is,
is that you get our files super fast.
And everything runs really well.
And then the sites are always up when you expect them.
And B, I wanted something that's going to be reasonably priced.
And C, I wanted something that I felt like was a company I
could trust long term.
Everybody makes their own judgment call on this.
But I have worked with companies that are VC backed.
And I have worked with companies that are independently funded.
And I don't think it's a surprise to any of you
guys to know that I'm always going
to go with the independently owned, independently funded.
And for me personally, and for my business,
I'm not ever going to host with any company that's VC funded.
And that's just my personal choice.
Everybody has to decide those things.
But after having close exposure to the VC world
and understanding how that goes and how it works,
I made my decision.
And Linode beyond just that has fantastic performance.
So not only are they independently owned,
but they have been since 2003.
They've got 11 data centers around the world.
They became their own ISP years ago.
That's the level we're talking about here.
They became their own ISP.
They have great fast links to all their data centers.
And their pricing is 30% to 50% cheaper
than the major cloud providers.
Something else to consider, too, is
if you're all in on one cloud provider,
you might want to look at Linode as a multi cloud
part of your strategy.
I think that's pretty important to look at over the next couple
of years.
And Linode could work out great there, too.
So get started by going to linode.com slash unplugged.
They have great customer service, the best
in the business.
And you're going to be really impressed
with how fast things are, how clean the dashboard is.
I think you're going to like it.
It's just going to take a guess.
So head over to linode.com slash unplugged.
Get $100 for your new account and try this stuff out.
Go build something.
Go learn something.
Go experience something.
There's a lot of places out there to host stuff.
There's a reason.
There's several of them why we choose Linode.
That's linode.com slash unplugged.
It's the last time we got to clean up on the road.
Oh, man.
It's been a mess.
I am really looking forward to being back in the studio.
Nothing like a 40-day road trip that
makes you super appreciate having a studio.
Really looking forward to that.
I want to also mention our friends over at the Ubuntu
podcast are wrapping up the show.
The final episode will be season 14, episode 30.
And it will be released on Thursday, September 30, 2021.
And they're going to have an online after party
with listeners on Friday, October 1,
with more details to come on that.
We'll try to pass that along as we can.
But I just wanted to say congratulations
to them for 14 years of making a great show.
No kidding.
What an accomplishment.
I mean, that kind of regularity, the quality of content
they've churned out continuously throughout the years,
just sticking to it, it's something else.
And it really is the end of an era.
It is.
And you look back, 14 years is a long time.
There is so much in that back catalog of things that happened.
I may do a little back catalog spelunking to celebrate.
So be sure to tune in for episode 30 from season 14,
which will be released on Thursday, September 30.
And we will try to get our friends Wimpy and Poppy on
when their schedule allows, so that way you
can still hear from them and get their opinion on Linux stuff.
They can join us in the virtual lug, of course.
And speaking of the virtual lug, the LUP lug
happens every Sunday, every Sunday, this Sunday,
and every Sunday at noon Pacific in our Mumble Room.
You can get the details at linuxunplug.com
slash mumble to set up your Mumble client, I guess.
And you can get the time converted
at jupyterbroadcasting.com slash calendar.
And that's all happening every Sunday.
And I, you know what, I'm going to recommend it.
I know, shocker, but I'm going to recommend it.
What doth make a Linux user?
What means you are a Linux user?
What makes you that?
Is it that you have a device in your home
that runs Linux, like a router or an Android device?
This is a conversation that came up recently on Coder Radio.
And my co-host, Mike, defines a Linux user
as anyone who uses Linux in some capacity,
either through voluntary methods or involuntary methods.
And I think I draw the line at anyone
who chooses to use Linux.
So you choose to get a Raspberry Pi,
even though you might have Mac and Windows
or whatever on your desktop, you choose to get a Raspberry Pi.
Or perhaps you buy a Chromebook because it
runs Linux.
Any time you make an active choice to use Linux,
I consider you a Linux user.
And we've been kicking this around.
And how does that influence how we create content in the show
and how we view our potential audience?
And the question has come up with,
where do we draw the line as far as the desktop?
And this is the conversation I'd like to have with you guys.
Is that a requirement to be considered a Linux user?
We got a tweet from Listener Poke who said, Chris Lass,
I admire your quest to get Linux running on your ThinkPad
with the same battery life and performance you got on Windows.
Side note, I tried out Windows 11 on my ThinkPad X1
ages ago when Windows 11 first came out,
the ISO that you could get.
And it ran great.
The battery life was better, the performance better
than I ever saw with Linux.
This first time I ever had Windows on this laptop,
I was shocked that it was that much better of an experience.
I hadn't seen that kind of differential in a long time.
Well, Poke goes on to say, I've got to admit, I've given up
and I just run Windows on mine.
And the ugly truth is, Windows 11, for my needs,
is really nice.
I know it's super unpopular, but I
think the Linux community would really
benefit from being accepting of the idea
that you can be an inherent Linux fan
and still choose to run Windows on the desktop.
Sometimes that's just what makes sense.
If someone opts to run Windows on the desktop and all
of their desktop devices, laptops, desktops, everywhere,
but they still have a server they SSH into
or they still have a Raspberry Pi in the corner that runs Linux,
do we consider them Linux users?
We got an email into the show.
Somebody says, look, I had to switch to Windows for work,
but I found out that WSL has worked amazing for me.
And I can get access to the Linux file system now.
I can use VS Code and IntelliJ in Windows
to program for Linux.
It's like a near native experience,
as if I am on Linux, but yet I have the Windows desktop
and I'm compliant with all of my work's policies.
And he says, does this make me no longer a Linux user?
And I think he is still a Linux user.
I think if we're real with ourselves,
we have to acknowledge that the Linux desktop market is tiny,
compared to the Linux server market and the Linux embedded
market, which is ginormous.
And if you look at what makes money on Linux,
it's the server market and the embedded market.
And the desktop market's making money for some folks,
but the server market makes real money, right?
We're talking enterprise money.
And that is such a larger use case that, in comparison,
you could remove every desktop Linux user
and it would not impact anybody's bottom line that
is in that market.
Companies like Dell and Canonical and System76
obviously would be impacted.
But when I'm talking about enterprise companies,
the desktop market could literally not exist.
And at least immediately, it would not
impact them until development fell off a cliff.
So I think we have to acknowledge that reality.
And we have to acknowledge that even with desktop Linux
at 1% of the market or something,
we are still a tiny minority compared
to the server market, which is just unfathomably huge.
I mean, you look at one company like Facebook,
and you've got like 20,000, 30,000 servers all running
Linux, right?
One company.
So you times that across the industry,
and it's just incomparable in the scale of the server market
compared to the desktop market.
And so I think we are kind of kidding ourselves if we say,
well, if you're not running Linux on the desktop,
then you're not really a Linux user.
We're going to put you in this bucket over here.
I think our community, and this is something
I really want to position the JB shows
and make the JB community about, I think our community,
as Linux as a whole, but JB specifically,
has to really be open to the idea
that a Linux user is anyone who actively chooses to use it.
And it might mean they're using WSL,
and they're not using a full desktop distro.
Or it might mean that they've got an M1, an Apple M1
Mac or something, but they've got.
Say it ain't so.
I know.
It happens.
And they've got a virtual machine.
Or they're SSHing into a dozen Linux servers.
That's the real world.
And while I love it on the desktop,
and I think Plasma makes the best desktop environment now,
I think KD Plasma's tops, I got to acknowledge,
I'm in the minority there.
And so I think it is our job to be welcoming
to all types of Linux users.
What's curious to me, Chris, is that you've
been talking about people who actively choose to use Linux.
But I bet you there's a whole other subset of people
who actively have to use Linux and aren't necessarily
as passionate as all of us here on the show are.
Those of us who are using the desktop Linux,
there's an inherent passion.
And that's likely the reason we came to in the first place.
But I bet you there's a bunch of Mac users and Windows users
out there who just need to use Linux to get their job done.
And they don't necessarily have the same passion as we do.
And they're still Linux users, aren't they?
I would probably argue that a lot of Linux users
are considering themselves more technical users or developers.
But you know, we may, maybe, might, maybe
be about to see a shift in the public perception of privacy
and spying and snooping.
I think every time you see a story like Apple's CSAM
scanning or a story about Google locking out somebody's Google
account, I think you get a few more people interested
in alternatives.
And yesterday, and I feel like an idiot
for not remembering the person's name,
but yesterday I came across a pastor who
has set up an online telegram group for everyone now.
And they are really pushing and recommending
Linux and free software.
I don't think because they, I don't even
know if they know about the GPL.
I couldn't tell you because I just kind of skimmed through it.
But it seemed like the entire thrust of the pitch
to tell people to switch to Linux
was because it was the operating system that
freed you from tracking and censorship and spying.
And if you're worried about your privacy
or you're worried about people monitoring what you're doing,
even if these things weren't even 100% concerns that they
really should be worried about, like Linux was the answer.
And there wasn't really a conversation
about its technical merits or its licensing.
It was more about, well, it's open source, which is OK.
All right, they almost got there.
It's not being tracked by Microsoft,
and it's not being tracked by Google,
and it's not being tracked by Apple.
In the code, they're not watching you
and all that kind of really aggressive kind
of worrying about the most egregious kind of spying,
it solves all those problems.
And what struck me about it, besides the fact
that they were getting some of the details wrong,
is I think there was like 20,000 people in that Telegram group
who were clearly not technical but were
interested in solutions to combat, quote unquote,
big tech.
And I mean, I saw that 1,000 times in that Telegram group
for the few hours I hung out in there.
And it was people that had searched up and tried
to find a solution to this problem
and came across this pastor and came across this Telegram
channel.
And we're in there asking questions on what Linux is
and what is LibreOffice and what is Fire.
They were getting themselves educated
because of privacy concerns.
And I'm sure they're not a huge group of the market,
but that could be a whole area that we
begin appealing to and expanding to when
it comes to free software.
And in the meantime, I look at it
as we just have to be as comfortable with them
using as little free software as they choose.
If they just get in and get on board with using free software,
that's a win.
If it's something like Linux or if it's LibreOffice
or if it's even just Firefox, that's a good win.
And if we kind of are shitheads about the fact
that they don't run it on Linux on the desktop,
it kind of acts as this kind of bouncing screen
that rejects people.
I get these emails into the show,
and that's what brings this topic up is people
have written in and they've said,
I feel like because I don't run it on the desktop anymore,
I can't really hang out in the Telegram group
or in the IRC room.
And that's just totally not true.
But I think there's that perception out there.
Yeah, it does feel like that way.
And I know, I mean, I'm excited about Linux on the desktop.
I don't really enjoy any other desktop operating systems.
But when we ask what, we've said Linux a lot here,
but I think it applies to the broader free and open source
ecosystem is every improvement that you get,
every step along that way is good.
So even if WSL makes us uncomfortable, which I mean,
I'll admit it does to me too.
But that is introducing these concepts to folks.
And we all have different practical realities
at the end of the day.
And so if we can help bridge that,
if we can get people to understand that these are tools
that are available for you for free, they are your tools,
change them, embrace them if you want,
and that they can help you regain some of the control
you might not feel you have anymore in whatever domains
matter the most to you, let's do that.
Because the great thing about free and open source software
as well is it's not going anywhere.
It can't be taken away from us.
And so if it takes us another 15 years to the point
where the desktop is totally irrelevant,
all the big companies are now focusing on mobile exclusively
and Linux desktops become the best again, well, great.
I'll celebrate that, and I'll keep using it
until that point regardless.
Yeah, boy, well put.
It's like they're not going to take it from you if it's.
And I think this is a big part of it
is as we get further and further down the road with technology
just being normalized in our daily lives,
we have transitioned from oh, isn't this a quaint toy
to I need this to do my job, or I need this to feed my family,
or I need x, y, z for this to happen.
And it's become much more critical.
Technology is unavoidable if you want to participate
in modern life at all.
20 years ago, I could have family members around me
who'd never used a computer.
They'd never owned a computer.
They never used one.
They were in construction work or something like in that line,
and they just never came up.
And all of them now own computers.
All of them know how to use a web browser.
They have to fill out stuff online for work.
It's changed.
It's touched every profession.
And I think we start rethinking about, well, this matters.
I need to own this.
I need to make sure it's not going away.
I'd like to customize this.
I think there's always been some of us
out there who have felt that way about our tools.
And Jonathan wrote into the show, and he said something.
He had an email.
He touched on a couple of good things.
But he said something that I think
Brent and Wes, you both are going to agree with a lot.
He said, the thing about desktop Linux
is it has a major feature that the other desktops don't have,
and that is I don't need to manage and run Windows.
I don't need to bother with Windows as an OS,
and I can just use the Linux desktop,
and it does what I want.
And I completely felt that on this road trip,
because when I brought a Mac, I have a Mac,
and I have my ThinkPad here.
And the ThinkPad, every time I have turned it on,
it has just gotten to work, and I've gotten online.
I've gotten what I needed.
And the Mac, it has to connect all these cloud services,
and it sits there, and it pulls down data for 10, 15 minutes
as it syncs a bunch of stuff with the NSURL session
de-process.
And I feel like I don't own or control this machine.
I am just using Apple's box, where my ThinkPad,
if I don't tell it to do something, it's not doing it.
It feels to me like that sense of control alone
is worth so much when, in our world,
it feels like we don't really have control over that much.
I remember seeing you, Chris, pulling your hair out
for those 10, 15 minutes as you're just
trying to get work done.
And on that limited cell signal that we
had for most of the trip, that was really challenging for us.
Yeah, it was my precious, precious bandwidths,
my precious bandwidths.
And it's just never an issue on the Linux box.
I could make it take a bunch of bandwidth
if I wanted to run updates and install them right now,
but it's also, for better or for worse,
it's not trying to coalesce a bunch of different processes
in the background and use one single process
to download everything.
But it gave me a real sense of, one,
is a real work tool for me, and the other, well,
it's a tool for sure.
It runs certain applications I needed, but.
I think we also have to understand
that those barriers and preferences will be different.
A lot of the feedback we're addressing says,
oh, WSL works great for me.
Or I can use Windows and also get
a lot of the huge benefits from some of the free
and open source software.
And to me, I get aggravated pretty quick
on a Windows desktop.
I mean, I used to admin it years ago.
It rubs me the wrong way.
But that's a personal feeling for me,
and I don't think I have no place comment.
If other people aren't bothered by that
and they like to combine systems, no problem.
Yeah.
On that question, what defines a Linux user, is it even Linux?
I mean, I think there's a question about if it's
free and open source software.
But I also wonder, is it also just the philosophy?
Maybe all the tools you use, you're into the Adobe suite
because you do a lot of video or photo editing work.
And you've already got Office paid for at work,
so you don't really need LibreOffice.
And you don't have any servers you admin,
but you still appreciate the philosophy
and advocate for open source and privacy.
Does that count too?
I think it does.
I think it's really, in so many ways,
it's about certain ideas that we jive on,
certain approaches to solving problems we jive on.
And I think that really is the commonality.
All right.
Well, I'd love to hear the audience's thoughts on this.
Also check some of the conversation
on the Coder Radio Show at coder.show.
But send us your thoughts, your emails, your feedbacks
at linuxunplugged.com slash contact.
We've got a form there.
But let's move on.
One of the things we loved about elementary OS 6
is, as they always do, they really
kind of went the extra 10%.
And they made this great centralized spot
where you could visualize all of the stuff
different Flatpak applications can do on your machine
or on your network.
And there's various tools out there
that will do this and other ways to solve that problem.
But we really liked the way elementary OS did it.
And now there's an app that will let all of us have that fun.
It's on Flat Hub, and it's called Flat Seal.
And it lets you manage your Flatpak permissions.
I mean, how this works, it is Flatpak itself,
but it manages Flatpak.
My head is exploding.
But honestly, this is almost, I think,
something that should be required.
I love Flatpak.
I love that we're now getting more and more integrations
into the GUI tools.
But even as someone who uses most of his proprietary apps
in Flatpak, the command line syntax isn't super friendly.
There's a lot of concepts going on.
And having to adjust some of those permissions
or get stuff to work right when you're like, well,
in general, I want sandboxing.
But for this app, I really don't.
I want this to feel more like part of my desktop.
And that's where Flat Seal can help you understand it
without having to go read the Flatpak code base.
Yeah, and it gives you a great visual conception
of what the different security portals do for Flatpak
and how you can turn those on and off.
It's great.
When you've got sandbox apps, why not
have that kind of control and make it easy?
Because I agree with you, Wes.
The Flatpak command line syntax has never
been that great, in my opinion.
Snap was way better out of the gate with the command line
syntax.
Definitely.
So again, it's called Flat Seal, all one word.
And we'll have a link in the show notes
at linuxunplugged.com slash, what is this, 423?
Yes, 423, linuxunplugged.com slash 423.
I'd love your app pick submissions as well,
linuxunplugged.com slash contact.
If there is a great app out there
that you think we should know about,
that's a great way to get in front of us.
You could send it other means, too, like Twitter's fine.
And Telegram would probably work, too.
But the nice thing about the contact page
and why we always are pushing it here on the show
is because, depending on what's going on, both Wes and I
can put eyes on that, where if you send it to one of us
directly, we might forget about it or something.
But if you put it on the contact form,
we're both checking that all the time.
Well, you know what?
We do the Twitter thing.
Bren, are you on the Twitter?
You know I am.
But you don't get to know what it is because no one
knows how to spell it.
I've been thinking about getting rid of my Twitter.
I've been thinking about actually just no social media
except for then there's the show stuff and the announcements.
And it's useful when you're live and that kind of thing.
Well, you can keep the network account, I guess.
Yeah, and the show accounts, maybe.
But I think such a small percentage of our audience
is on social media, too.
That's the thing.
A very, very small percentage of people are actually on there.
I don't know.
Well, it's a big difference, too.
It can be useful to see trends, to see what prominent folks
might be talking about.
But if it's not a platform that you
feel like you're engaging with to have productive discussions.
And honestly, we already have places like The Matrix
and self-hosted Discord and the Telegram channel
where I feel like we have a much better curated set of folks
who have self-selected in there to have
good and respectful discussions.
Then yeah, it kind of makes me question,
what value are you getting?
Well, I think the biggest value would
be that when the audience does tweet at me, I can reply.
And it's nice, short, and concise,
where an email can sometimes turn into a book.
And it's harder to respond to a book.
But tweet is limited.
I don't know.
I'm just on the fence.
And I wonder, is there a moral reason
I should not be on social media, too?
The whole thing's really a first world problem, though.
So I don't really worry too much about it.
But it has been on my mind recently.
But we will be there.
In the meantime, Brent's on social media.
But he won't tell you what it is.
But we may have it linked in the show notes.
Wes is on there.
He may tell you what it is.
It's just at Wes Payne.
Yeah, when you've got the last name of Payne,
you don't really need a fancy Twitter handle.
You know, you just go with that.
I'm at Chris LAS.
And the LAS does not stand for an airport.
It is Linux Action Show.
And the entire network is at Jupiter Signal.
See you next week.
Same bat time, same bat station.
We'd love to have you join us live on a Tuesday.
Should be back in the studio.
Oh, mm, oh, that's going to be great.
And you know what, we got the see you next Tuesday
in the fridge still.
Oh, that's going to be great.
You've earned it, my friend.
Thank you.
In the meantime, you can always get the show
at linuxunplug.com slash subscribe.
If you can make it, we do it on Tuesdays at noon Pacific,
3 PM Eastern.
And we'd love to have you join us live.
And if you want to catch the live show,
but you can't make it, we do make a version
available for our members.
So you can always become a member, support the show,
and get the full live stream.
All right, links to everything we talked about,
linuxunplug.com.
Thanks so much for joining us.
We'll see you next Tuesday.
And you can always get the show at linuxunplug.com.
Let me tell you, we have been driving hard.
I don't know if you've been watching the tracker at all, but we ended up spending a couple
of more days in Tucson as we waited for the work to get done and then to leave.
And so we cooked for a couple more days and then we hit the road like in a way we haven't
done in a couple of years, 10, 13 hour drive days back to back.
And one of our goals was to make it to the coast as fast as possible because that's where
the temperature dropped.
It goes from like 106 around noon to 65 Fahrenheit around noon at the coast.
And so Hadia and I just drove like maniacs for a couple of days and belined it.
The rig limped the entire way with a lean and half working suspension on one side, but
it was working and just got all the way to the coast.
And it was incredible to see the Pacific Ocean again.
I had an emotional reaction when I came around the corner and I saw the Pacific Ocean.
It was amazing.
The breeze, the smell, just the cold ocean air.
And the evergreen trees are so beautiful.
It's so nice to be back up.
You're home.
And now I'm actually I'm in Southern Oregon.
I was in Northern California and I'm in Southern Oregon and it's the Pacific Northwest.
It's so gorgeous.
It's so great.
It feels so good.
It's like 55 degrees at night now.
It's so much more comfortable.
And I am so, so proud of Joups.
I mean, she, you know, she had some technical problems with the suspension, but we were
cooking from day one when we left Seattle, there was a heat dome and it was hot everywhere
we went, everywhere we went.
It was low 90s to triple digits.
And it didn't, it did not relent until we made it to the California coast and Joups
held up.
I mean, if this wasn't the ultimate stress test for Joups, I feel like now you're pretty
prepared for whatever climate catastrophe is to come.
Bring on the zombies.
Yeah, dude, totally just need a push bar and I'm good to go.